All right so now we have our last type of problem which is find the equation of a line.
All right we're looking for an equation of a line whose b equals three and that passes through the points
three four and one two.
So remember we're looking here for an equation.
How do we get an equation for a line for a linear function.
We went over that and the tutorials.
In fact there's a mnemonic for it.
So try to pick your brain and see if you remember what I'm talking about.
And if you do you're going to know exactly where B goes.
So even if you don't remember just go ahead and pause the video and try to give it a shot.
All right so did you actually remember how to find the equation of a line.
Well remember we have a mnemonic for the equation of linear functions.
Remember why Mexico bro.
There you go.
That's what it is.
So why Mexico bro reminds you that the equation of a line is why Mexico stands for X and then the Breau
is the plus b c that.
There you go.
So we have the B.
Right.
It's equal to 3.
We just need to find m which is the slope.
So let's go ahead and find the slope of the line that's passing through these two points.
So again slope is wide to minors why one over to mine is x.
Let's say this is point 1.
And this is point to so y2 is the why of this point.
So that's two.
Mine is why one the why of the other points.
So that's four over x to the X of this point which is one minus x 1 which is the x value of this points
which is three.
So we have two minus four is negative two and one minus 3 is also negative 2 negative over a negative
as is positive and 2 over 2 is 1.
All right so the equation of this line is slope is 1 x plus 3.
However since we have a 1 we can just take it out and leave X because 1 times X is always x.
So the equation finally is X plus 3.
And there we go.
All right.
So let's try that one more time.
Find the equation of a line whose b equals negative for this time and that passes through the points
negative 1 negative 1 and 5 7.
So go ahead and pause your video and try it out.
So again we go to Arno Monnick.
Why Mexico bro y equals x plus B and again we have the B which is negative for and we just need the
M.
All right.
So let's go ahead and find the M which is the slope again.
That's why two minors while one it's always good to write down equations even if you know them so that
you can just look at them and plug in stuff more quickly and more easily right.
So let's say that this is point one and this is point 2.
So why two is the y value of point 2.
So that's 7 minus why one white one is negative 1.
So 7 minus negative 1 over and then we have x 2 which is the x value of the second point.
That's five minus x 1 which is the x value of the first points.
So minus negative 1
and remember when we have a negative and a negative it becomes a positive.
So on top we have seven and plus one and on the bottom we have five negative times a negative is a positive
plus one of five plus one finally or slope is going to be 7 plus 1 which is 8 and 5 plus 1 which is
6.
We can actually simplify this 8 over 6 so 8 over 6 if we divide both top and bottom by 2.
So we divide 8 by 2 that's 4.
And if we divide six over two that's three.
But in theory this is correct.
If you leave it as 8 over 6 that's fine.
But it's always good to simplify whenever you can.
So slope is going to be for over three most professors like to see simplified answers.
So most of the time I simplify in this tutorial.
So you get in the habit of doing so.
All right so we have a slope we have or B.
What is the equation it is y equals and the slope is for over three.
So for over 3 x and then plus B.
In this case the B's negative.
So it's minus four and that is the equation of our aligner.
We are done.
All right so we covered finding slopes we covered drawing graphs of linear functions and we covered
finding equations of lines when given B and when given two points that the line crosses.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.